doc/index.rst, before:

.. PMbrowser documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Jan  9 22:16:22 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. meta::
   :description: PMbrowser documentation
   :keywords: PMbrowser, PatchMaster, Igor, IgorPro, documentation, export
   :viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1


#####################################
Welcome to PMbrowser's documentation!
#####################################

:program:`PMbrowser` is open-source software aimed at electrophysiologists who use :program:`PATCHMASTER` or
:program:`PATCHMASTER NEXT` from `HEKA <http://www.heka.com/downloads/downloads_main.html#down_patchmaster_next>`_ and
:program:`IgorPro` of `WaveMetrics <https://www.wavemetrics.com/>`_. It can open bundled data files (:file:`.dat`) and 
export :program:`IgorPro` compatible files (see :ref:`intro-label` for details).
But even if you do not use :program:`IgorPro`, you might find :program:`PMbrowser` helpful.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:
   
   introduction
   usage/installation
   usage/new_user_tour
   usage/menues
   usage/displayarea
   usage/tree-view
   usage/igor_export_infos



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`

.. * :ref:`search`

Commit message:

doc: some updates and corrections

doc/index.rst, after:

.. PMbrowser documentation master file, created by
   sphinx-quickstart on Sun Jan  9 22:16:22 2022.
   You can adapt this file completely to your liking, but it should at least
   contain the root `toctree` directive.

.. meta::
   :description: PMbrowser documentation
   :keywords: PMbrowser, PatchMaster, Igor, IgorPro, documentation, export
   :viewport: width=device-width, initial-scale=1


#####################################
Welcome to PMbrowser's documentation!
#####################################

:program:`PMbrowser` is open-source software aimed at electrophysiologists who use :program:`PATCHMASTER` or
:program:`PATCHMASTER NEXT` from `HEKA <http://www.heka.com/downloads/downloads_main.html#down_patchmaster_next>`_ and
:program:`IgorPro` of `WaveMetrics <https://www.wavemetrics.com/>`_. It can open bundled data files (:file:`.dat`) and 
export :program:`IgorPro` compatible files (and supports some additional export formats,
see :ref:`intro-label` for details).

But even if you do not use :program:`IgorPro`, you might find :program:`PMbrowser` useful for browsing PatchMaster files
and exploring the metadata of such files.

.. toctree::
   :maxdepth: 2
   :caption: Contents:
   
   introduction
   usage/installation
   usage/new_user_tour
   usage/menues
   usage/displayarea
   usage/tree-view
   usage/igor_export_infos



Indices and tables
==================

* :ref:`genindex`

.. * :ref:`search`
